[TOC]

## Chapter 1 Who Are You?

### The Influence of Time and Space

**Not only are you a member of a particular species, Homo sapiens, but you also exist at a particular time in the history of that species and in a particular place on the planet.** That time and place are defined by specific circumstances, understandings, beliefs, and customs, all of which limit your experience and influence yout thought patterns, If you had lived in America in *colonial* times, you likely would have had no objection to the practice of barring women for serving on a jury, entering into a legal contract, owning property, or voting. If you had lived in the nineteenth century, you would have had no objection to young children being denied and education and being hired out by their parents to work sixteen hours a day, nor would you have given any thought to the specical needs of adolescence. (The concept of a adolecence was not invented until 1904.)

If you had been raised in the Middle East, you would stand much closer to people you converse with then you do in America, If you had beed raised in India, you might be perfectly comfortable having your parents choose your spouse for you. If your native language were Spanish and your knowledge of English modest, you probably would be confused by some English colloquialisms. James Henslin offfers two amusing examples of such confusion: Chevrolet Novas initially sold very poorly in Mexico because no va in Spanish means "it doesn't work"; and Perdue chickens were regarded with a certain suspicion(or worse) because the company's slogan--"It takes a tough man to make a tender chicken"--became in Spanish "It takes an aroused man to make a chicken affectionate."

People who grow up in Europe, Asia, or South America have very different ideas of  punctuality. As Daniel Goleman explains, "Five minutes is late but permissible for a business appointment int he U.S., but thirty minutes is normal in Arab contries. In England five to fifteen minutes is the 'correct' lateness for one invited to dinner; an Italian might come two hours late, an Ethiopian still later, a Javenese not at all, haveing accepted only to prevent his host's losing fave." **A difference ethnic origin would also mean different tastes in food**. Instead of craving a New York Strip steak and french fries, you might crave "raw monkey brains" or "camel's milk cheese patties cured in dry camel's dung" and washed down with "warm camel's blood." Sociologist Ian Roberston summed up to the range of global dietary differences succinctly: "Americans eat oysters but not snails. The French eat snails but not locusts. The zulus eat locusts but not fish. The Jews eat fish but not pork. The Hindus eat pork but not beef. The Russians eat beef but not sneaks. The Chinese eat snakes but not people. The Jale of New Guinea find people dilicious."

To sum up, **living in a different age or culture would make you different person. Even if you rebelled against the values of your time and place, they still would represent the context of your life-in other words, they still would influence your responses.**



### The influence of Ideas

When an idea is expressed, closely related ideas are simutaneously conveyed, logically and inescapably. In logic, this kinship is expressed by the term sequitur, Latin for "it follows."(The converse is non sequitur, "It does not follow.")

​	Consider, for example, the idea that many teachers and parents express to young children as a way of encounraging them: "If you beleive in yourself, you can succed at anything," From this is follows that nothing else but belief-neither talent nor hard work-is necessary for success, The reason the two ideas are equivalent that their meannings are inseparably linked.

​	In addition to conveying ideas closely linked to it in meanning, an idea can imply other ideas. For example, the idea that there is no real diffrence between virtue and vice implies that people should not feel bound by common moral standards. Samuel Johnson had this implication in mind when he said: "But if he does really think that there is no distinction between virtue and vice, why, Sir, when he leaves our houses let us count our spoons."【https://www.enotes.com/topics/life-samuel-johnson-ll-d/quotes/when-he-leaves-our-houses-let-us-count-our-spoons】

​	If we were fully aware of the closely linked meaning and implications of the ideas we encounter, we could easily sort out the sound ones from the unsound, the wise from the foolish, and the helpful from the harmful. But we are seldom fully aware. **In many cases, we take ideas at face value and embrace them with little or no thought of their associated meaninngs and implications. In the course of time, our actions are shaped by those meanings and implications, whether we are aware of them or not.**【和自证预言的关系？】

To appreciate the influence of ideas in people's lives, consider the series of events set in motion by an idea that was popular in psychology more than a century ago and whose influence continues to this day-the idea that "intelligence is genetically determined and cannot be increased."

​	That idea led researchers to devise tests that measure intelligence. The most famous(badly flawed) test determined that the everage metal age og white American adults was 13 and that, among immigrants, the average Russian's mental was 11.34; the average Italian's, 11.01;the average Pole's, 10.74; and the average mental age of "Negroes,"10,41.

​	Educators read the text results and thought, "Attempts to raise students' intelligence are pointless," so they replaced academic curricula with vocaitonal curricula and embraced a methodology that taught student facts but not the process of judgement."

*The statement "Belief is oneself an important element in success" is very different because it specifies that belief is not the only element in success.*

Legislators read the test results and decided "We've got to do something to keep intellectually inferior people from entering the country," so they revised immigration laws to dicriminate against southern and centeral Europeans.

Eugenicits, who had long been concerned about the welfare of the human species, saw the tests as a grave warning. They thought, "If intellifence cannot be increased, we must find ways of encouraging reproduction among people of highter intelligence and discouraging it among those of lower intelligence."

The eugenicists' concern inspired a variety of actions. Margaret Sanger's Planned Parenthood urged the lower classes to practice contraception. Others succeded in legalizing promoted forced sterilizatioin, notably in Virginia. The U.S. Supreme Court upheld the Viginia law with Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. declaring, "Three generation of imbeciles are enough." Over the next five decades 7,500 women, including "unwed mothers, prostitutes, petty criminals and children with disciplinary problems" were streillized. In addition, by 1950 over 150, 000 supposedly "defective" children, many relatively normal, were held against their will in institutions. They "endured isolation, overcroding, forced labor, and physical abuse including lobotomy, electroshock, and surgical sterilization."

Meanwhile, businnes leaders read the test results and decided, "we need policies to ensure that workers leave their minds at the factory gate and perform their assigned tasks mindlessly." So they enacted those policies. Decades laterm when Edwards Deming proposed his "quality control" ideas for involving workers in decision making, business leaders remenbered those test results and ignored Deming's advice.(In contrast, the Japanese welcomed Deming's ideas; as a result, several of their industries surged ahead of their American competition.)

These are the most obvious effects of hereditarianism but they are certainly not the only ones. Others included discrimination against racial and ethnic minorities and the often-paternalistic policies of government offered in response. (Some historians also link hereditarianism to the genocide that occurred in Nazi Germany.)

The innumereable ideas you have encountered will affect your beliefs and behavior in similar ways-sometimes slightly, at other times profoundly. And this can happen even if you have not consciously embraced the ideas.



### The Influendce of Mass Culture

In centuries past, family and teachers were the dominant, and sometimes the only, influence on children. Today, however, the influence exerted by mass culture  (the broadcast media, newspapers magazines, Internet and popular music) often is greater.

​	By age 18 the average teenager has spent 11,000 hours in the classroom and 22,000 hours in front of the televisionset. He or she has had perhaps 13,000 school lessons yet has watched more than 750,000 commercials. By age thirty-five the same person had fewer than 20,000 school lessons yet has watched approximately 45,000 hours of television and close to 2 million commercials.

​	What effects does mass culture have on us? To answer, we need only consider the formats and devices commonly used in the media. Modern advertising typically bombards the public with slogans and testimonials by celebraties. **This approach is designed to appeal to emotions and create artificial needs for products and services**. As a reuslt, many people develop the habit of responding emotionally, impulsively, and gullibly to such appeals. They also tend to acquire values very different from thos taught in the home and the schoole. **Ads often portray play as more fulfilling that work, self-gratification as more desirable than self-control, and materialism as more meaningful than idealism.**

​	Television programmers use frequent scene shifts and sensory appeals such as car crashes, violence, and sexual encounters to keep audience interest from dimishing. Then they add frequent commercial interruptions. This author has analyzed the attention shifts that television viewers are subjected to. In a dramatic program, for example, attention shifts might include camera angle changes; shifts in story line from one set of characters(or subplot) to another, or from a present scene to a past scene(flashback), or to fantasy; and shifts to "newsbreaks," to commercial breaks, from one commercial to another, and back to the program. Also included mights be shifts fo attention that occur within commercials. The number of shifts within commercials ranged from 6 to 54 and averaged approximately 17 per fiftenn-second commercial. The total number of attention shifts came out to over 800 per hour, or over 14 per minute.

​	This manipulation has prevented many people from developing a mature attention span. They expect the classroom and the workplace to provide the same constnat excitement they get from televison. That, of course, is an impossible demand, and when it isn't met they call their teachers  boring and their work unfulfilling. Because such people seldom have the patience to read the books that require them to think, many publishers have replaces serious books with light fare written by celebreties.

​	Even when writers of serious books do manage to become published authors, they are often directed to give short, dramtic answers during promotional interviews, sometimes at the expense of accuracy. A man who coach writers for talk shows offered one client this advice: "If I ask your whether the budget deficit is a good thing or a bad thing, you should not say, 'Well, it stimulates the economy but is passes on a burden.' You have to say 'It's a great idea!' or 'It's a terrible idea!' It doesn't matter which." (*Translation: Don't give a balnacee answer. Give an oversimplified one because it will get you noticed.*)

Print journalism is also in the grip of sensationalism. As a newspaper editor obaserved, "Journalists keep trying to find people who are at 1 or at 9 scale of 1 to 10 rather than people at 3 to 7[the more moderate positions] where most people actually are." Another journalist claims, "News is now becoming more opinion than verified fact.Journalists are slipping into entertainment rather than telling us the verified facts we need to know."

​	Today's politicians often manipulate people more offensively than do journalists. Instead of expressing their thoughts, some politicians find out what people think and pretend to share their ideas. Many politicians hire people to conduct polls and focus groups to learn what messages will "sell." They even go so far as to test the impact of certain words-that is why we hear so much about "trust", "familly", "character," and "values" these days. Political science professor Larry Sabato says that during the Clinton impeachment trial, the president's advisors used the term private lives over and over-James Carville used it six times in one four-minute speech-because they knew it could persuade people into believing the president's lying under oath was of no great consequence.



### The "Science" of manipulation 

Attempts to influence the thoughts and actions of others are no doubt as old as time, but manipulation did not become a science util the early twentieth century, when Ivan Pavlov, a Russian professor of psychology, published his research on conditioned(learned) reflexes. Pavlov found that by ringing a bell when he fed a dog, he could condition the dog to drool at the sound of the bell even whtn no food was presented. An American psychologist, John Watson, was impressed with Pavlov's findings and applied them to human behavior. In Watson's  most famous experiment, he let a baby touch a laboratory rat. At first, the baby was unafraid. But then Watson hit a hammer against metal whenever the baby reached out to touch the rat, and the baby become frightened and cried. In time, the baby cried not only at the sight of the rat but also at the sight of anytthing furry, such as a stuffed animal. Watson's work earned him the title "father of behaviorism."

​	Less well known is Watson's application of behaviorist principle to advertising. He spent the latter part of his career working for advertising agencies and soon recognied that the most effecitve appeal to consumers was not to the mind but to the emotions. He advised advertisers to "tell [the consumer] something that will tie hime up with fear, something that will stir up a mild rage, that will call out an affectionate or love response, or strike at a deep psychological or habit need." His attitude toward the consumer is perhaps best indicated by a   statement he made in a presentation to department store executives: "The consumer is to the manufacturer, the department stores and the advertising agencies, what the green frog is to the physiologist."

​	Waton introduces these strategies in the 1920s and 1930s, the age og newspapers and raio. Since the advent of television, these advertising strategies have grown more sophisticated and effective, so much so that many individuals and groups with political and social agendas have adopted them. The strategies work for a number of reasons, the chief one being people's conviction that they are impervious to manipulation. This belief is mistaken, as many researchers have demonstrated. For example, Solomon Asch showed that people's reactions can be altered simply by changing the order of words in a serise. He asked study participants to evaluate a person by a series of adjectives. When he put positive adjectives first-"critical, stubborn, envious"-the particiapants gave a positive evaluation. When he reversed the order, with "envious" coming first and "intelligent" last, they gave a negative evaluation.

​	Similarly, research has shown that human memory can be manipulated. The way a question is asked can change the details a person's memory and even make a perpon *remember something that never happened.*

​	Of course, advertisers and people with political or social agendas are not content to stimulate emotions and /or plant ideas in our minds. They also seek to reindorce those impressions by repeating them again and again. The more people hear a slogan or talking point, the more familiar it becomes. Before long, it becomes indistinguishable from ideas developed through careful thought, Sadly, "the packaging is often done so effectively that the viewer, listener, or reader does not make up his own mind at all. Instead, he inserts a packaged opinion into his mind, somewhat like inserting a DVD into a DVD player. He then pushes a button and 'plays back' the opinion whenever it seems appropriate to do so. He has performed acceptably without having had to think." Many of the beliefs we hold dearest and defend most vigorously may have been planted in our minds in just this way.

​	Many years ago, Harry A. Overstreet noted that "a climate of opinion, like a physical climate, is so pervasive a thing those who live within it and know no other take it for granted." The rise of mass culture and the sophisticated use of manupulation have made this insight more relevant today than ever.'



### The Influence of Psychology

The social and psychological theories of our time also have an impact on our beliefs. Before the past few decades, people were urged to be self-disciplined, self-critical, and self-effacing. They were urged to practice self-denial, to asipire to self-knowledge, to behave in a manner that ensured they maintained self-respect. Self-centeredness was considered a vice. "Hard work," they were told, "leads to achievement, and that in turn produces satisfaction and self-confidence." By and large, our grandparents internalized those teachings. When they hornored them in their behavior, they felt pround; when they dishonored them, they felt ashamed.

​	Today the theries have been changed-indeed, almost exactly reversed. Self-esteem, which nineteenth-century satirist Ambrose Bierce defined as "an erroneous appraisement," is now considered an imperative. Self-centeredness has been transformed from vice into virtue, and people who devote their lives to helping others, people once considered heroic and saintlike, are now said to be afflicted with "a disease to please." The formula for success and happiness begins with feeling good about ourselves. Students who do poorly in school, workers who don't measure up to the challenges of theire jobs, substance abusers, lawbreakers-all are typically diagnosed as deficient in self-esteem.

In addition, just as our grandparents internalized the social and psychological theories of their time, so most contemporary Americans have internalized the message of self-esteem. We hear people speak of it over coffee; we heat it endlessly invoked on talk shows. Challengs to its precepts are usually met with disapproval.

​	But isn't the theory of self-esteem self-evident? No. A negative perception of our abilities will, of course, handicap our performance. Dr. Maxwe;; Maltz explains the amazing results one educator had in improving the grades of schoolchildren by chaning their self-images. The educator had observed that when the children saw themselves as stupid in a particular subject(or stupid in general), they unconsciously acted to confirm their self-images. They believed they were stupid, so they acted that way. Reasoning that it was undermining their efforts, the educator set out to change their self-images. He found that when he accomplished that, they no longer behaved stupidly! Maltz concludes from this and other examples that our expertiences can work a kind of self-hypnotism on us, suggesting a conclution about ourselves and then urging us to make it come true.

Many proponents of self-esteem went far beyond Maltz's demonstration that self-confidence is an important ingredient in success. They claimed that is no such thind as too much self-esteem. Research does not support that claim. For example, Martin Seligman, an eminent research psychologist and founder of the movement known as positive psychology, cites significant evidence that, rather than solving personal and social problems, including depression, the modern emphasis on self-esteem causes them.

​	Maltz's research documents that lack of confidence impedes performance, a valuable insight. But such research doesn't explain why the more global concept of self-esteem had become so dominant. The answer to that question lies in the popularization of the work of humanisitc psychologists such as Abraham Maslow. Maslow described what he called the hierarchy of human needs in the form of a pyramid, with physiological needs(food and drink) at the foundation. Above them, in ascending order, are safety needsm the need for belongingness and love, the need for esteem and approval, and aesthetic and congnitive needs(knowledge, understanding, etc.) At the pinnacle is the need for self-actualization, or fulfilment of our potential. In Maslow's view, the lower needs must be fulfilled before the higher ones. It's easy to see how the idea that self-esteem must precede achievement was dericed from Maslow's theory. 

​	Other theories might have been adopted, however. A notable one is Austrian psychiarist Viktor Frankl's, which was advanced at roughly the same time as Maslow's and was based on both Frankl's professional practice and his experiences in Hilter's concertration camps. Frankl argues that one huamn need is higher than self-actualization: self-transcendence, the need to rise above narrow absorption with self. According to Frankle, "the primordial anthropological fact [is] that being human is being always directed, and pointing to something or someone other than oneself: to a meaning to fulfill or another human being to encounter, a cause to serve or a person to love." A person becomes fully human "by forgetting himself and giving himself, overlooking himself and focusing outward."

​	Making self-actialization(or happiness) the direct object of out pursuit, in Frankl's view, is ultimately self-defeating; such fulfillment can occur only as "the unintended effect of self-transcendence." The proper perspective on life, Frankl believes, is not what it can give to us, but what is expects from us; life is daily-even hourly-questioning us, challenging us to accept "the responsibility to find the right answer to its problems and to fulfill the tasks which it constantly sets for [each of us]."

​	Finding meaning, according to Frankl's theory, involves "perceiving a possibility embedded in reality" and searching for challenging tasks "whose completion might add meaning to [one's] existence." But such perceiving and searching are frustrated by the focus on self: "As long as modern literature confines itself to, and contents itself with, self-expression-not to say self-exhibition-it reflects its authors' sense of futility and absurdity. What is more important, it also creates absurdity. **This is understandable in light of the fact that meaning must be discovered,** it cannot be invented. Sense cannot be created, but what may well be created is nonsense."

​	Whether we agree completely with Frankl, one thing is clear: Contemporary American culture would be markedly different if the emphasis over the past several decades had been on Frankl;s theory rather than on the theories of Maslow and the other humanistic psychologists. All of would have been affected- we can only imagine how profoundly-in out attitude, values, and beliefs. 

### Becoming an Individual

In light of what we have discussed, we should regard individuality not as something we are born with but rather as something acquired-or, more precisely, earned. Individuality begins in the realization that it is impossible to escape being influence by other people and by circumstance. The essence of individuality is vigilance. The following guidelines will help to achieve this:

1. **Treat your first reaction to any person, issue, or situation as tentative.** No matter how appealing it may be, refuse to embrace it until you have examined it.
2. **Decide why you reacted as you did.** Conside whether you borrowed the reaction from someone else-a parent or friend, perhaps, or a celebrity or fictional charactoer on television. If possible, determine what specific experiences conditioned you to react this way.
3. **Think of other possible reactions you might have had to the person, issue, or situation.** 
4. **Ask youself whether one of the other reactions is more appropriate than your first reaction.** And when you answer, resist the influence of your conditioning. 

To ensure that you will really be an individual and not merely claim to be one, apply thest guidelines throughout your work in this book, as well as in your everyday life. 

### Applications

*Note: One of the best ways to develop your thinking(and writing) skills is records your observations, questions, and ideas in a journal and then, as time permits, to reflect on what you have recorded-considering the meaning and application of the observation, answering the questions, elaborating on the ideas(and, where appropriate, challenging them), and recording your insights. An inexpensive bound notebook or spiral notebook will serve the purpose. A good approach is to record your initial observations, questions and ideas on the left side of the page, leaving the right side blank for your later analysis and commentary. The value of this reflective process is so great that you should consider keeping such a journal even if your instructor does not make is a formal part of the course.*

1. Do a bried study of attention shifts such as the one described in the chapter. Record a half-hour show. Then play the show back twice, the first time counting the number of shifts within the program, excluding commercials, and the second time counting only those within commercials. Complete the necessary arithmetic and be prepared to share your results in class.
2. Reflect on your findings in application 1. Write several paragraphs discussing the implications of those findings for education, business, and family life.
3. Many people cheerfully pay \$6 or \$7 a gallon for designer drinking water but moan and groan when they have to pay \$3 a gallon for gasoline. Does anythind you read in this chapter help you understand why this is so?
4. Imagine how different America might be if Frankl's emphasis on self-transcendence and personal responsibility, rather than Maslow's emphasis on self-actualization and popular culture's emphasis on self-esteem, had been dominant for the past fifty years. List as many ways as you can in which our society might be different today and comment on whether each would be beneficial or harmful. Be prepared to explain your views in class discussion.
5. 
